[MUSIC]
>> Kevin Whinnery: Now, we should be
able to start using the model with
this new property.
So, the first thing I might try
is to run my test, npm test,
and it does actually
successfully create a Todo item.
But I might sort of modify that to also,
>> Kevin Whinnery: Add
in a completed flag.
So, in addition to creating
a todo with the title
text.
>> Kevin Whinnery: I think I
actually want completed,
there all right, right.
I'm gonna create a todo
with both the title and
the completed and
add another assertion there that says,
todo.completed, [INAUDIBLE] false.
And there's a bunch of ways to do that
assertion but that one works okay.
But this is one way for
me to just quick verify that the table
has been sort of updated and
the model is kinda doing what I expect.
These are fairly shallow tests again but
it's the first step.
Now, what I need to do is update
my REST API endpoints to actually update
these properties on the models as well.
So for that,
I'm gonna open up my todo routes.
And for both the update and the create
operation, I'm gonna have to accept
another parameter for
the completed flag essentially.
So, for update, we'll do this first.
>> Kevin Whinnery: I'm
gonna look for a request body.
Excuse me I'm actually gonna
do that after my 404 check.
>> Kevin Whinnery: So,
I'm gonna set the completed
property of my model
to be equal to the result
of a Boolean check.
So, if a request.body.completed
=== 'true',
that's gonna set completed to be true for
all other values of that component
that's gonna evaluate false.
There's other ways to do this, this is a
fairly quick and dirty implementation but
it's one way to make that piece happen.
And then, in my create,
I'm gonna do something similar.
So, in this case, I'm
gonna set that completed property,
again based
on the result of that Boolean comparison,
whether or not it's true.
And then, it should be updated
in my database accordingly.
So, those are the two REST API endpoints,
I need to update.
Now, I'm gonna run my application and
make sure that my REST API is
doing what I feel it should do.
So, I'll start up the dev server.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
now, you can verify this using cURL or
whatever HTTP client you want.
Like I said I'm kinda a fan of Postman so,
I'm gonna do it that way.
So, if I start off by
sending a get to my input,
I can see that I have all of my
todos in the database but for
most of them the completed
attribute is set to null.
So, let's create a new one
with that attribute in place.
So, in addition to the body,
title excuse me,
I'm gonna pass in a completed string and
I'll initially set it to false.
And I created that value in the database
so, completed is set to false.
I could create another one,
>> Kevin Whinnery: Set to true.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Send that in and then,
again, if it's anything but the string
true, it's going to default to false.
So now,
if I list those items in the database,
the most recently created ones
are there with their proper values.
And I can test the update
by using the put.
Put is the operation that I'm
using to update the models.
In this case, the title is going to be,
whatever I want that to be.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And completed is going
to be true, I can send that.
And once again, I can see ID11 has
been updated but that had one already.
So let's do maybe ID number two.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And hit Send, and then,
that's been updated as well.
>> Kevin Whinnery: All right,
so, once again,
the steps were creating a migration,
handling, adding and
removing the column whether or
not we're migrating the database up or
down.
After we did that,
we updated our actual Todo model,
to have the property that
we added to the database.
We updated our test and then,
we updated our express controller
logic to take advantage of
that new property which wasn't
there before.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Cool,
any questions on any of that code?
There were a number of steps
there that you had to discover.
So, not surprised that
a good chunk of people.
Yeah, there was definitely a lot to
grok there if you haven't done it
before.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Anybody
in the chat maybe we'll
give them a chance to
>> Kevin Whinnery: Okay, if you have any
other questions on the SQLite side of
things, I'd be happy to answer them.
SQLite is a fairly full-featured ORM.
It can do complex relationships and
can use database specific features
like JSON fields and Postgres.
So, if you're interested in digging
deeper, it's definitely gonna be your best
bet for an ORM if you're not
gonna go with a driver directly.